The first 10 Maxims

Maxim I. The frontiers of states are either large rivers, or chains of mountains, or deserts. 
Of all these obstacles to the march of an army, the most difficult to overcome is the desert; mountains come next, and broad rivers occupy the third place.

Maxim II. In forming the plan of a campaign, it is requisite to foresee everything the enemy may do, and to be prepared with the necessary means to counteract it. 
Plans of campaign may be modified, ad infinitum, according to circumstances --> 
the genius of the general, the character of the troops, and the topography of the theater of action.

Maxim III. An army which undertakes the conquest of a country has its two wings resting either upon neutral territories, 
or upon great natural obstacles, such as rivers or chains of mountains. 
It happens in some cases that only one wing is so supported, and in others that both are exposed.

Maxim IV. When the conquest of a country is undertaken by two or three armies, which have each their separate line of operation, 
until they arrive at a point fixed upon for their concentration, it should be laid down as a principle, 
that the union of these different corps should never take place near the enemy: because the enemy, in uniting his forces, 
may not only prevent this junction, but may beat the armies in detail.

Maxim V. All wars should be governed by certain priniciples, for every war should have a definite object, and be conducted according to the rules of art. 
(A war should only be undertaken with forces proportioned to the obstacles to be overcome.)

Maxim VI. At the commencement of a campaign, to advance or not to advance is a matter for grave consideration; 
but when once the offensive has been assumed, it must be sustained to the last extremity. 
However skillful the maneuvers in a retreat, it will always weaken the morale of an army, 
because in losing the chances of success these last are transferred to the enemy. 
Besides, retreats always cost more men and materiel than the most bloody engagements; 
with this difference, that in a battle the enemy's loss is nearly equal to your own--whereas in a retreat the loss is on your side only.

Maxim VII. An army should be ready every day, every night and at all times of the day and night, to oppose all the resistance of which it is capable. 
With this view, the soldier should always be furnished completely with arms and ammunition; 
the infantry should never be without its artillery, its cavalry, and its generals; 
and the different divisions of the army should be constantly in a state to support, to be supported, and to protect itself.
The troops, whether halted, or encamped, or on the march, should be always in favorable positions, 
possessing the essentials required for a field of battle; 
for example, the flanks should be well covered, and all the artillery so placed as to have free range, and to play with the greatest advantage. 
When an army is in column of march, it should have advanced guards and flanking parties, 
to examine well the country in front, to the right, and to the left, and always at such distance as to enable the main body to deploy into position.

Maxim VIII. A general-in-chief should ask himself frequently in the day, "What should I do if the enemy's army appeared now in my front, or on my right, or my left?" 
If he have any difficulty in answering these questions, his position is bad, and he should seek to remedy it.

Maxim IX. The strength of an army, like the power in mechanics, is estimated by multiplying the mass by the rapidity; 
a rapid march augments the morale of an army, and increases its means of victory. Press on!

Maxim X. When an army is inferior in number, inferior in cavalry, and in artillery, it is essential to avoid a general action. 
The first deficiency should be supplied by rapidity of movement; the want of artillery, by the nature of the maneuvers; 
and the inferiority in cavalry, by the choice of positions. 
In such circumstances the morale of the soldier does much.
